hello drummers how's it going it's Alex
once again bring you some more fun
drumming ideas today we look at request
which is a sort of 6/8 halftime shuffle
groove which pops up in the track work
by the bay curtain group and the request
was sent to me by Antony Highland but
hopefully worth the wait so sit back and
there we go okay mate so wanna do as
long as you can already place and
they're gonna go into too much detail
about how to play like the halftime
shuffle groove and essentially what
we're doing is we've got this basic 6/8
drum beat going one two three four five
six one two three four five six and
we're gonna start playing that shuffle
pattern with the right hand so you get
this one and two and three five six one
two three four five and six and then the
next thing we've got to try and do is
gonna try and get like the left hand
filling in those gaps the right hands
leaving okay so if we're counting it
like one triplet two triplet three we're
not actually playing anything on that
trip of the triplet and that's what
we're gonna stick in the little left
hand I mean to play that as a ghost note
so if we just look at the hand pattern
it's like one triplet two triplet three
triplet four triplet five triplet six
trip flip okay so every time I'm saying
trip that's one put a little ghost note
on the left hand the only time we're not
gonna do that is on beat four cuz I'm
gonna hit an accent at the same time as
the right hand on beat four so we're
just gonna put those little ghosties on
the trip of beat one two three five and
six okay now if I just put the kick drum
on beat one as well we're pretty much
there with the majority the group so it
goes out of this
okay then once you've got that down he's
gonna transfer your right hand over to
the floor tom
okay playing exactly the same thing 1 2
3 4 5 6 1 2 3 4 5 6 so you won't do too
much of that
okay so what I've actually listened to
the track what I'm finding is it's
almost like a 4 bar loop going on in
which on the first three bars you're
just hitting the kick drum on beat 1 but
then on the fourth bar a variation that
pops up quite a few times he's putting a
kick on the count of beat 1 and then on
the left of beat one and another let of
the second triplet as well and that's
going to sound like this I'll play I'll
play a little 2 bar loop I'll put the
bass drum on beat 1 on the first time
and on the second time around I'll put
it on the 1 but let it be 1 and a little
bit too so you get this ok exactly the
same thing with our right hand on the
floor tom we get this
all right and then we got to try and do
now or down to try we got to do is you
play the kick drums on beats one on the
first three bars and on the fourth bar
then you play that silver little pads
and we've got three kick drums okay
let's go sound like this okay and then
your next challenge is I'm not sure you
don't have to necessarily do that but if
you get your left hand you left foot so
just ticking away or B's 1 2 3 4 5 6 1 2
3 4 5 6
that is pretty much it or what I think
it is anyway there are a few extra
subtle variations with the kick drum I'm
sure if you listen to the track you can
sort of plunk nose in and they all
gently all the bass drums always pretty
much full on the right hand so if you
just sort of work those bits out then
you should have it but that's the
general concept of it so so I'll play a
few times more and then come and say
goodbye so here we go
okay dude there it is that's what you
were looking for I'm sorry it took so
long to sort out you've probably worked
out already by now anyway but it was a
good excuse me to sort of practice bit a
shuffle works over no okay if anyone
else has a request feel free to leave
requests on the coming page most
preferably video at the Facebook then
you can link her you know link video to
it and specify whereabouts the beat will
feel pops up if you want to learn that
be brilliant
obviously Twitter's their sheet music
could be there and that's about it so
well take care guys and I'll see you
very soon for some more drum stuff
you